Dear Professor ___
I hope this email finds you well. I'm Zhongqi Xiu, an undergraduate student from the University of Science and Technology of China(USTC), and I will get my bachelor's degree in 2025. I've read your papers, and the research about spectral domain OCT attracts me a lot. Hence, I would be honored to apply to the __ graduate program and join your group as a PhD student.

In parallel to my rigid training in experimental optics, I have a solid foundation in studying optical imaging and machine learning. Nowadays, I am researching single photon emission in fewlayer transition metal dichalcogenides in the SCOPE lab at Rice University. Supervised by Professor Shengxi Huang, I carried out optical spectroscopy measurements, including photoluminescence, Raman, and time-correlated single photon counting spectroscopy, to comprehensively study the properties of single photon emitters. Also, in the SCOPE lab, we use machine learning to build predictive models from the training datasets collected for problems such as predicting material properties, spectral analysis, trace molecule detection, and molecular structure analysis.

Through these rewarding experiences, I am now ready for my PhD, and I would definitely be a valuable addition to your group. I have been following your work, especially the research on ____, which perfectly match my research interests. Thus, I would like to work with you on investigating ____.

My resume is attached to this email, and you can also visit my homepage for more information. Thank you again for your valuable time!